---
layout: post
title: Day 2-12/11
---

**Summary:** Today, I finished Day 1 parts 1 and 2. I solved my previous problem by using the built-in method split, which got rid of it. Part two also reused a lot of the code from part one, which is quite similar to the missions we do in a programming class, where we have to reuse the code as well. I think so far I have enjoyed this Advent of Code, because of the way it's structured. Instead of being like a problem and challenge, it's structured into a story that is also Christmas-themed! For example, the problem right now is that we are elves trying to find Santa because Santa is missing before Christmas. I particularly like this because it makes it more fun, and it feels more like a game you are playing rather than homework.  

**Problems:** None! Part 2 of Day 1 was easy, and I was able to finish it without any trouble.  

**Next Steps:**  
My goal for tomorrow is to hopefully finish Day 2 part 1.

---
layout: post
title: Day 3-12/15
---

**Summary:** Today, I finished Day 2 Part 1. I think this problem was the toughest one yet, due to it involving many of the components we have already learned so far, such as deep copy and non-deep copy of lists. 
One thing I noticed while I was doing this problem is that I first thought it would be easy and dove right in, but I was quickly frustrated and couldn't figure out the coding answer. 
However, after taking a break, coming back, and starting from a clean state, I found it easier to type out what I wanted my code to do. 
Once I finished typing out my code (essay style), it was much easier to write the code out, and it went more smoothly. I also like how each challenge builds upon the other while being different at the same time. For example, it's similar to a present box inside of a present box, and to open each present box, you have to solve a riddle. You eventually will get to the inside, where your present lies. This is kind of similar, with coding problems replacing the riddles, and the present being the satisfaction of completing the problem.  

**Problems:** I experienced some problems with my code at first, but after taking a break, I was able to fix it (as I mentioned above).  

**Next Steps:**  
My goal for tomorrow is to finish Day 2 part 2. I also learned that I can use PyCharm to back up my code with GitHub. I hope to learn how to do this tomorrow, so I can put it in this GitHub repository for everyone to view along with my blogs.  




