---
layout: post
title: Day 1-12/11
---

Summary: Today I got started on the Advent of Code Day Part 1 challenge. The challenge was taking a list of two columns, subtracting the least value pairs and second least value pairs, and so on, and then finding the value.
I approached this by first opening the file in read mode, then by going line by line and removing the whitespace, and putting it in a cleaned list.  I then split the cleaned list into the original two columns of numbers, by using mod. Afterward, I sorted and subtracted (the absolute value) the two lists. I also made sure to write Docstrings and assert cases first :)
Problems: However I encountered my first problem. Because the numbers were in two columns when I added them to the cleaned list, it put two numbers into one index of the list, and because of that the code didn't work and I had a 
ValueError: Invalid literal for int() with base 10: '10123   29710.' This was a problem because I didn't know how to get rid of the whitespace between the two numbers and put them in separate indexes of the list. I have a few ideas however, which include using for loops to get rid of the whitespace again, but I am worried that this might make the code more complicated than needed.   
Next Steps: 
My next goal is to first solve this problem. I think I will spend five minutes tomorrow trying things out to solve this problem and if it doesn't work, I will reach out to Lax for help on slack. Then I will continue on to part 2 of Day 1 problem, and I can hopefully complete all 5 problems in the time left. 
---
layout: post
title: Day 2-12/12
---

Summary: Today, I finished Day 1 parts 1 and Two. I solved my previous problem by using the built-in method split, which got rid of it. Part two also reused a lot of the code in part one, which is quite similar to the missions we do in a programming class, we have to reuse the code as well. I think so far I have enjoyed this Advent of code, because of the way it's structured. Instead of being like a problem and challenge, it's instead structured into a story that is also Christmas-themed! For example, the problem right now is that we are elves and we are trying to find Santa because Santa is missing before Christmas. I preferably like this because, it makes it more fun, and it feels more like a game you are playing rather than homework.     
Problems: None! Part 2 of Day 1 was easy, and I was able to finish it without any trouble.
My next goal is to solve this problem first. I think I will spend five minutes tomorrow trying things out, and if it doesn't work, I will reach out to Lax for help on Slack. Then, I will continue on to part 2 of the Day 1 problem, and I can hopefully complete all five problems in the time left. 
NextSteps:
My goal for tomorrow is to hopefully finish Day 2 part 1. 

